academics/2026S/plan.md, before:

# plan 2/2/2026 16:17

fuck...I want to lay down and sleep so badly....

anyways here is the plan, I have to do it. For avoiding future procrastination and getting decent grades.

## COMP3711 (4 hours max)
GOAL: level up to 3.

### What to do:
- Read --> write
  - Read lecture notes and google/gpt to read further explanation if you don't understand (40 minutes)
  - after you understood them, rewrite notes with your own words (2.5 hours)
- attempt USACO questions (1 hour)
## COMP2611
GOAL: level up to 2
### What to do:
- Read --> write
  - Read lecture notes and google/gpt to read further explanation if you don't understand (40 minutes)
  - after you understood them, rewrite notes with your own words (2.5 hours)

# general rules
- spend spare time between lectures ~~or during lecture~~ to work on math/fina notes/problems
- spend 6 hours daily (fixed) from 7 pm to 1 am to work on COMP3711 and COMP2611
- right after waking up, if you don't have lang2030, then do some algorithmic problems or comp2611 problems. (max 3 hours)
- work hard in the following order:
    - comp3711
    - comp2611
    - math2411
    - math2111
    - math2011
    - fina1303
    - lang2030


# plan 8/2/2025
## COMP3711
- ~~continue the slides, finish the first lecture note (30 minutes)~~
  - complete:
    - ~~more on worst-case analysis (1 hour)~~
    - exercise 2 and 3 (1 hour)
    - insertion sort (1 hour)
      - idea
      - runtime analysis 
    - selection sort (1 hour)
      - proof of correctness

- start usaco (1 hour)
- continue the slides, start divide and conquer slides (30 minutes)
  - write some skeleton notes to be improved later (1 hour)

## COMP2611 
- read slides (30 minutes)
  - make notes, watch the video recordings if necessary (1 hour) 

## MATH2411
- read slides (30 minutes)
  - make notes, watch the video recordings if necessary (1 hour)



# plan 11/2/2026 
- revise the stuff you learnt in todays lecture
- draw the trees 
- write the inversion counting algorithms etc. 

# Rules:
- the following is my algorithm on studying. Simply **do it** for each topics in each subject
- ## Stage 1:  basic understanding
  - make the simplest rough notes first (sometimes just directly copy lecture content)
  - ensure that you have a basic understanding while doing so
- ## Stage 2: level up
  - solve as much problems as possible on the related topics 
    - to get a better understanding 
      - first choose the problems from lecture notes, tutorial
- ## Stage 3: Simply repeat
  - move on to next topic and do the same thing above
- ## Stage 4: Final boss:
  - after doing all topics, start past papers 
- ## Stage 5: Review and embrace craftsmanship (if time is enough):
  - paraphrase the rough notes 
    - make them simple
    - make them look pretty
    - for terms that appear a lot of times
      - make bite-sized notes and link them

# 20/2/2026 12:43
- back from CNY holidays (went back to homeland in mainland china)
- barely did anything during the 3 days holiday
- got a little obsessed into "The eminence in shadow" cuz it's a good show
- spent $82 for breafast and drinked a small cup of milk tea from 大家樂
- watched the last 3 more episodes of "The eminence in shadow season 2" and finished the show
- read something about the side characters 
- currently drinking green tea from 7-eleven
- yes I am slowly juicing myself up with moderate amount of caffeine
- yes I am absolutely ready to go agane, it's time to come back
- bare this in mind:
  - the key is not about how many days you have "lost" in the context of academic progress
  - the key is how fast you learn and catch up 
  - stay calm, train yourself to read fast, understand fast and think of a strategy fast
    - you are definitely slow in the brain right now
    - but it is fine
    - treat this as a training opportunity
    - sit back and stay relaxed 
    - you can do it
- so now, what exactly do I do? What should I accomplish in the next few hours so that I won't regret and cry at bed tonight
- yes, I need the minimal goal of the day
- here it is:

|Time|Task|
|----|----|
|13:30 - 14:20 |Review and refine COMP3711 main note up to before D&C (google + COMP3711H notes). Basically what exactly you need to do: look at the notes you have written or copied from lecture notes, if you don't get it -> research and paraphrase|
|14:30 - 16:20|Revision on COMP2611, review the lecture note up to until the stuff that have been covered in the lecture. Type and copy the lecture notes content to the main note. Get a basic understanding|
|16:30 - 18:20| Catch up on MATH2411 by self-studyding it (would not be very easy with the lecture notes given). Type and copy the lecture notes content to the main note. Get a basic understanding|
|18:30 - 20:20| Start COMP3711 homework1. At least finish the first question and a little bit of the second question. Type out the entire homework descriptions and questions. Make it as nice as possible|
|20:30 - 21:20|Dinner break|
|21:30 - 23:20|self-study the rest of the master theorem slides. You don't have to finish, just see how far you can go within the 2-hours time limit.|
|23:30 - 00:20|Review and refine COMP3711 main note up to before master theorem (D&C) (google + COMP3711H notes). Basically what exactly you need to do: look at the notes you have written or copied from lecture notes, if you don't get it -> research and paraphrase|
|00:30 - 02:20| find and complete one related leetcode problem|
|02:30 - 3:20| game break. Play whatever games you like|

Commit message:

finished task 2 and 3 and updated plan

academics/2026S/plan.md, after:

# plan 2/2/2026 16:17

fuck...I want to lay down and sleep so badly....

anyways here is the plan, I have to do it. For avoiding future procrastination and getting decent grades.

## COMP3711 (4 hours max)
GOAL: level up to 3.

### What to do:
- Read --> write
  - Read lecture notes and google/gpt to read further explanation if you don't understand (40 minutes)
  - after you understood them, rewrite notes with your own words (2.5 hours)
- attempt USACO questions (1 hour)
## COMP2611
GOAL: level up to 2
### What to do:
- Read --> write
  - Read lecture notes and google/gpt to read further explanation if you don't understand (40 minutes)
  - after you understood them, rewrite notes with your own words (2.5 hours)

# general rules
- spend spare time between lectures ~~or during lecture~~ to work on math/fina notes/problems
- spend 6 hours daily (fixed) from 7 pm to 1 am to work on COMP3711 and COMP2611
- right after waking up, if you don't have lang2030, then do some algorithmic problems or comp2611 problems. (max 3 hours)
- work hard in the following order:
    - comp3711
    - comp2611
    - math2411
    - math2111
    - math2011
    - fina1303
    - lang2030


# plan 8/2/2025
## COMP3711
- ~~continue the slides, finish the first lecture note (30 minutes)~~
  - complete:
    - ~~more on worst-case analysis (1 hour)~~
    - exercise 2 and 3 (1 hour)
    - insertion sort (1 hour)
      - idea
      - runtime analysis 
    - selection sort (1 hour)
      - proof of correctness

- start usaco (1 hour)
- continue the slides, start divide and conquer slides (30 minutes)
  - write some skeleton notes to be improved later (1 hour)

## COMP2611 
- read slides (30 minutes)
  - make notes, watch the video recordings if necessary (1 hour) 

## MATH2411
- read slides (30 minutes)
  - make notes, watch the video recordings if necessary (1 hour)



# plan 11/2/2026 
- revise the stuff you learnt in todays lecture
- draw the trees 
- write the inversion counting algorithms etc. 

# Rules:
- the following is my algorithm on studying. Simply **do it** for each topics in each subject
- ## Stage 1:  basic understanding
  - make the simplest rough notes first (sometimes just directly copy lecture content)
  - ensure that you have a basic understanding while doing so
- ## Stage 2: level up
  - solve as much problems as possible on the related topics 
    - to get a better understanding 
      - first choose the problems from lecture notes, tutorial
- ## Stage 3: Simply repeat
  - move on to next topic and do the same thing above
- ## Stage 4: Final boss:
  - after doing all topics, start past papers 
- ## Stage 5: Review and embrace craftsmanship (if time is enough):
  - paraphrase the rough notes 
    - make them simple
    - make them look pretty
    - for terms that appear a lot of times
      - make bite-sized notes and link them

# 20/2/2026 12:43
- back from CNY holidays (went back to homeland in mainland china)
- barely did anything during the 3 days holiday
- got a little obsessed into "The eminence in shadow" cuz it's a good show
- spent $82 for breafast and drinked a small cup of milk tea from 大家樂
- watched the last 3 more episodes of "The eminence in shadow season 2" and finished the show
- read something about the side characters 
- currently drinking green tea from 7-eleven
- yes I am slowly juicing myself up with moderate amount of caffeine
- yes I am absolutely ready to go agane, it's time to come back
- bare this in mind:
  - the key is not about how many days you have "lost" in the context of academic progress
  - the key is how fast you learn and catch up 
  - stay calm, train yourself to read fast, understand fast and think of a strategy fast
    - you are definitely slow in the brain right now
    - but it is fine
    - treat this as a training opportunity
    - sit back and stay relaxed 
    - you can do it
- so now, what exactly do I do? What should I accomplish in the next few hours so that I won't regret and cry at bed tonight
- yes, I need the minimal goal of the day
- here it is:

|Time|Task|
|----|----|
|✅~~13:30 - 14:20~~ 13:30 - 14:30|Review and refine COMP3711 main note up to before D&C (google + COMP3711H notes). Basically what exactly you need to do: look at the notes you have written or copied from lecture notes, if you don't get it -> research and paraphrase|
|✅~~14:30 - 16:20~~ ~~14:40 - 16:20~~ 14:40 - 15:45 (yes I finished earlier than exxpected)|Revision on COMP2611, review the lecture note up to until the stuff that have been covered in the lecture. Type and copy the lecture notes content to the main note. Get a basic understanding|
|✅~~16:30 - 18:20~~ ~~16:00 - 18:20~~ 16:00 - 17:20| Catch up on MATH2411 by self-studyding it (would not be very easy with the lecture notes given). Type and copy the lecture notes content to the main note. Get a basic understanding. (newly added as I forgot to mention when to stop) -> stop before probability|
|⏱️18:30 - 20:20| Start COMP3711 homework1. At least finish the first question and a little bit of the second question. Type out the entire homework descriptions and questions. Make it as nice as possible|
|⏱️20:30 - 21:20|Dinner break|
|⏱️21:30 - 23:20|self-study the rest of the master theorem slides. You don't have to finish, just see how far you can go within the 2-hours time limit.|
|⏱️23:30 - 00:20|Review and refine COMP3711 main note up to before master theorem (D&C) (google + COMP3711H notes). Basically what exactly you need to do: look at the notes you have written or copied from lecture notes, if you don't get it -> research and paraphrase|
|⏱️00:30 - 02:20| find and complete one related leetcode problem|
|⏱️02:30 - 3:20| game break. Play whatever games you like|
