# Description
- The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster was a 2011 nuclear accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Okuma, Fukushima Prefecture, Japan. The two diagrams on p. 2 summarize the events that took place. 
The accident was primarily caused by the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami but in the Parliamentary report, the event was concluded to be a man-made disaster.

1.	What do you know about the causes of the incident? What were the parties involved? 

2.	What is a good analysis of the engineering ethical implications of the Fukushima incident? Comment on these paragraphs drafted by 3 students who are working on the report. Put your comments in the form of dos and don’ts in the table overleaf.


# Draft paragraph by student C
- Some **may** argue that the inaction of the engineers was due to the TEPCO management’s decision not to retrofit the older units because of the high expenditure associated with the upgrading process. However, this should not remove entirely the liability of the engineers, as they were obliged to express their honest opinions to their employers about the possible repercussions within their area of competence (WFEO articles 2.1, 4.3 in [11]). They should have explained to the management team the complications and threats that the flaw presented to the reactors. Admittedly it was a challenging situation that they operated in, and their obligations to the employers and their self-interest could have weighed heavily in their consideration, but they should also be aware that the interest of the public was paramount.


# analysis of the draft paragraph
## good
- hedging (may argue that)
- good citing on WFEO (has evidence)
## bad
- very lengthy sentences
  - not very clear, hard to read (might be my bad in english tho)
- repeats certain word too many times ("should")
  - tone is repetitive
- does not have a topic sentence (starts with counter-argument)